On trigger events and the collider object.
In this video, we'll cover what our trigger events and why are they useful in our game.
We'll also open up the Unity editor and play with trigger events.
So why use on trigger events?
These events give us more information about physics intersections.
These are between game objects with colliders.
When is trigger is set to true.
This is useful in a game.
For example, when a character enters a dungeon room.
Let's go through a scenario here with a non trigger event.
A pink cube is following toward a trigger volume.
Pink has a rigid body and a collider so that it falls and it detects where its bounds are.
And the green has a collider with collider is trigger set to true.
So pink is falling, pink enters the trigger volume, we get the on trigger enter one time while pink
is in the trigger volume.
While it's staying in there, we'll get a repeated call to the on trigger stay.
We would expect this to be called many times.
When pink exits, the trigger volume will get one time on trigger exit called and then pink continues
to fall.
Our focus here is really about the on trigger enter.
That's usually enough information to get what we need from the callback.
For example, again, when a character enters a dungeon room, we would get notified that the character
has entered something and then we can inspect the collider object to find out if it's the dungeon room.
So the collider object itself is the component that defines the shape of an object for the purposes
of physical collision.
We've used colliders before, of course, and we're going to focus on one property here, the collider
game object that's going to tell us for the collider that we're hitting.
What game object is it on?
Let's take a look at a demo we'll look at on trigger events.
One, we'll play the scene, we'll inspect the code, and as a bonus, we'll take a look at the console
Windows feature called Collapse.
Here we are in unity.
Let's open up the next scene.
The en trigger events, number one, and we'll notice that q b here is set up with a box collider with
is trigger set on.
There's also no rigid body.
When we play the scene, we expect the pink to fall right through it.
Let's see.
Yep.
It behaves exactly as we'd expect.
And if we look at the console we see we get one enter many stays and one exit.
Let's look at the code.
On trigger.
Enter on sugar.
Stay and on sugar.
Exit.
Just like we'd expect.
That's it.
In the next video, we'll look at adding Programatic forces.
We'll cover movement and unity from a traditional sense movement in unity for physics specifically.
We'll look at types of forces and then we'll open up the unity editor and we'll play with those forces.